docs/source/index.rst, before:

django-auditlog documentation
=============================

django-auditlog (Auditlog) is a reusable app for Django that makes logging object changes a breeze. Auditlog tries to
use as much as Python and Django's built in functionality to keep the list of dependencies as short as possible. Also,
Auditlog aims to be fast and simple to use.

Auditlog is created out of the need for a simple Django app that logs changes to models, including the user that changed
the models (later referred to as actor). Existing solutions seemed to offer a type of version control, which was not
needed and would cause too much overhead.

The core idea of Auditlog is similar to the log from Django's admin. However, Auditlog is much more flexible than the
log from Django's admin app (:py:mod:`django.contrib.admin`). Also, Auditlog saves a summary of the changes in JSON
format, so changes can be tracked easily.

Contents
--------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   usage
   internals


Contribute to Auditlog
----------------------

If you found an issue with Auditlog or want to improve the code, please submit an issue and/or pull request via GitHub.
Before submitting a new issue, please make sure there is no issue submitted that involves the same problem.

| GitHub repository: https://github.com/jjkester/django-auditlog
| Issues: https://github.com/jjkester/django-auditlog/issues

Commit message:

Add note about progress in docs

docs/source/index.rst, after:

django-auditlog documentation
=============================

django-auditlog (Auditlog) is a reusable app for Django that makes logging object changes a breeze. Auditlog tries to
use as much as Python and Django's built in functionality to keep the list of dependencies as short as possible. Also,
Auditlog aims to be fast and simple to use.

Auditlog is created out of the need for a simple Django app that logs changes to models, including the user that changed
the models (later referred to as actor). Existing solutions seemed to offer a type of version control, which was not
needed and would cause too much overhead.

The core idea of Auditlog is similar to the log from Django's admin. However, Auditlog is much more flexible than the
log from Django's admin app (:py:mod:`django.contrib.admin`). Also, Auditlog saves a summary of the changes in JSON
format, so changes can be tracked easily.

Contents
--------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   usage
   internals


Contribute to Auditlog
----------------------

.. note::
   Due to multiple reasons the development of Auditlog is not a priority. Therefore progress might be very slow.
   However, community involvement in the form of pull requests is very much appreciated. If you like to take Auditlog to
   the next level and be a permanent contributor, please contact the author (janjelle@jjkester.nl).

If you found an issue with Auditlog or want to improve the code, please submit an issue and/or pull request via GitHub.
Before submitting a new issue, please make sure there is no issue submitted that involves the same problem.

| GitHub repository: https://github.com/jjkester/django-auditlog
| Issues: https://github.com/jjkester/django-auditlog/issues
